readme: update (#747)
morpho-org/vault-v2: README.md

# Vault v2

> [!NOTE]
> Vault v2 instances are distinguished between:

> > - **Morpho Vaults**: Vault v2 with the Morpho registry (link to be added) abdicated. Learn more about Morpho Vaults and their benefits here (link to be added).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - **Morpho Vaults**: Vault v2 with the [Morpho registry](https://github.com/morpho-org/vault-v2-adapter-registries) abdicated. Learn more about Morpho Vaults and their benefits here (link to be added).
```
repo is already public, are we waiting for audits ?

Author: this is not exactly the Morpho registry, the Morpho registry is an instance of vault-v2-adapter-registries which has the right configuration etc.

> > - **Unaffiliated Vaults**: Vault v2 that can supply to any protocol. They don't get all the Morpho Vaults benefits. In particular, Vault v2 has been developed and audited only in the context of the Morpho Market V1 and Morpho Vault V1 adapters.

Author: ```suggestion
> - **Standard Vaults**: Vault v2 that can supply to any protocol. They don't get all the Morpho Vaults benefits. In particular, Vault v2 has been developed and audited only in the context of the Morpho Market V1 and Morpho Vault V1 adapters.
```

Vault v2 enables anyone to create [non-custodial](#non-custodial-guarantees) vaults that allocate assets to any protocols, including Morpho Market v1, Morpho Market v2, and Morpho Vault v1.
Depositors of Vault v2 earn from the underlying protocols without having to actively manage their position.
Management of deposited assets is the responsibility of a set of different roles (owner, curator and allocators).

[Vault v2](./src/VaultV2.sol) is [ERC-4626](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4626) and [ERC-2612](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2612) compliant.
The [VaultV2Factory](./src/VaultV2Factory.sol) deploys instances of Vaults v2.

> All the contracts are immutable.

Reviewer: Should we mention that adapters are not immutable ? (well ours are but not sure about future ones)

Author: maybe we should just remove this

### Adapters

Vaults can allocate assets to arbitrary protocols and markets via adapters, or use an adapter registry to add restrictions to allowed adapters.
The curator enables adapters to hold positions on behalf of the vault.
Vaults can allocate assets to arbitrary protocols and markets via separate contracts called adapters.
They hold positions on behalf of the vault.
Adapters are also used to know how much these investments are worth (interest and loss realization).
Because adapters hold positions in protocols where assets are allocated, they are susceptible to accrue rewards for those protocols.
To ensure that those rewards can be retrieved, each adapter has a skim function that can be called by the vault's owner.

Adapters for the following protocols are currently available:

- [Morpho Market v1](./src/adapters/MorphoMarketV1Adapter.sol).
  This adapter allocates to any Morpho Market v1, constrained by the allocation caps (see [Id system](#id-system) below).
  The adapter holds a position on each respective market, on behalf of the vault v2.
- [Morpho Vault v1](./src/adapters/MorphoVaultV1Adapter.sol).
  This adapter allocates to a fixed Morpho Vault v1 (v1.0 and v1.1).

>   The adapter holds shares of the corresponding Morpho Vault v1 (v1.0 and v1.1) on behalf of the vault v2.

Reviewer 2: I would keep both the mention of rewards & the currently available adapter descriptions.

>   This adapter allocates to any Morpho Market v1, under the constrained of the [caps](#caps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This adapter allocates to any Morpho Market v1, under the constraints of the [caps](#caps).
```

>   This adapter allocates to a fixed Morpho Vault v1 (v1.0 and v1.1), under the constrained of the [caps](#caps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This adapter allocates to a fixed Morpho Vault v1 (v1.0 and v1.1), under the constraints of the [caps](#caps).
```

> The funds allocation of the vault is constrained by a caps system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The funds allocation of the vault is constrained by an id-based caps system.
```

A typical liquidity adapter would allow deposits/withdrawals to go through a very liquid Market v1.

### Timelocks

Curator configuration changes are all timelockable (except `decreaseAbsoluteCap` and ), meaning that doing an action requires submitting it first, and only when the timelock has passed it can be executed (by anyone).
This is useful notably to the [non-custodial guarantees](#non-custodial-guarantees), but also in general if a curator wants to give guarantees about some configurations.

In particular, a configuration can be *abdicated*, meaning that it won't be able to be set anymore, by setting the timelock to type(uint256).max and making sure that pendingCount for this selector is zero.
Thus, increaseTimelock should be used carefully, because decreaseTimelock is timelocked with the timelock itself.

### In-kind redemptions

> To guarantee exits even in the absence of assets immediately available for withdrawal, the permissionless `forceDeallocate` function allows anyone to move assets from an adapter to the vault's idle assets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To guarantee exits even in the absence of assets immediately available for withdrawal, the permissionless `forceDeallocate` function allows anyone to move assets from an adapter to the vault's idle assets (meaning the vault token balance).
```

A typical liquidity adapter would allow deposits/withdrawals to go through a very liquid Market v1.

### Timelocks

Curator configuration changes are all timelockable (except `decreaseAbsoluteCap` and ), meaning that doing an action requires submitting it first, and only when the timelock has passed it can be executed (by anyone).
This is useful notably to the [non-custodial guarantees](#non-custodial-guarantees), but also in general if a curator wants to give guarantees about some configurations.

In particular, a configuration can be *abdicated*, meaning that it won't be able to be set anymore, by setting the timelock to type(uint256).max and making sure that pendingCount for this selector is zero.

> Thus, increaseTimelock should be used carefully, because decreaseTimelock is timelocked with the timelock itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thus, increaseTimelock should be used carefully, because decreasingTimelock is function-dependent: decreasing the timelock of a function is timelocked by the timelock of the function itself.
```

Note that the only friction to deallocating an adapter with a 0% penalty is the associated gas cost.

### Non-custodial guarantees

Non-custodial guarantees come from [in-kind redemptions](#in-kind-redemptions-with-forcedeallocate) and [timelocks](#curator-timelocks).
These mechanisms ensures users that they can always withdraw their assets before any critical configuration change takes effect (if the right timelocks are not zero).

### Gates

Vaults v2 can use external gate contracts to control share transfer, vault asset deposit, and vault asset withdrawal.
If a gate is not set, its corresponding operations are not restricted.

Four gates are defined:

- **Receive shares gate** (`receiveSharesGate`): Controls the permission to receive shares.
- **Send shares gate** (`sendShareGate`): Controls the permission to send shares.
- **Receive Assets Gate** (`receiveAssetsGate`): Controls permissions related to receiving assets.
- **Send Assets Gate** (`sendAssetsGate`): Controls permissions related to sending assets.

### Max rate

The vault's share price will not increase faster than the allocator-set `maxRate`.

> This can be useful to stabilize the distributed rate, or build a buffer to tank losses.

Reviewer 2: "tank" losses is probably way too informal

### Fees

> VaultV2 depositors are charged settable performance fees, a cut on interest (capped at 50%), and management fees (capped at 5%), a cut on principal, that goes to recipient set by the curator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VaultV2 depositors are charged a configurable performance fees, which is a cut on interest (capped at 50%), and management fees (capped at 5%), which is a cut on principal. Both go to a recipient set by the curator.
```

#### Curator

The curator's role is to curate the vault, meaning setting risk limits, gates, allocators, fees.
- **Curator**: The curator's role is to curate the vault, meaning setting [adapters](#adapters), [risk limits](#caps), [gates](#gates), [allocators](#allocator), [fees](#fees).
Only one address can have this role.

Curator actions are timelockable, except decreaseAbsoluteCap and decreaseRelativeCap.
Once the timelock has passed, the action can be executed by anyone.

It can:

<a id="curator-timelocks"></a>

- [Timelockable] Increase absolute caps.
- Decrease absolute caps.
- [Timelockable] Increase relative caps.
- Decrease relative caps.
- [Timelockable] Set the adapter registry.
- [Timelockable] Set adapters.
- [Timelockable] Set allocators.
- [Timelockable] Increase timelocks.
- [Timelocked by the timelock being decreased] Decrease timelocks.
- [Timelockable] Set the `performanceFee`.
  The performance fee is capped at 50% of generated interest.
- [Timelockable] Set the `managementFee`.
  The management fee is capped at 5% of assets under management annually.
- [Timelockable] Set the `performanceFeeRecipient`.
- [Timelockable] Set the `managementFeeRecipient`.

>   increaseTimelock should be used carefully, because decreaseTimelock is timelocked with the timelock itself. In particular it is possible to make an action irreversible (which is a feature in itself). A timelock of `type(uint256).max` is a recommended convention for making an action irreversible.

Reviewer 2: I would keep this, it has its place in a README.

Reviewer 2: yes a summary (can be in another form) of what can be done and what is timelockable

Reviewer 2: Depends on what the goal of the readme is but it's super helpful to summarize exhaustively, compared to going through each function and checking who can call it and whether it's timelocked.

What about

```
The curator's role is to configure the vault. He can set [adapters](#adapters) and an optional adapter registry, configure [risk limits](#risk-limits) by setting absolute and relative caps, set the [gates](#gates), the [allocators](#allocators), the [timelocks](#timelocks), the [fees](#fees) and the fee recipients.
All actions are timelockable except decreasing absolute and relative caps.
```

Author: that's great

> - **Allocator(s)**: The allocators' role is to handle the vault's allocation in and out of underlying protocols (with the enabled adapters, and inside the caps set by the curator).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Allocator(s)**: The allocators' role is to handle the vault's allocation in and out of underlying protocols (with the enabled adapters, and within the caps set by the curator).
```

#### Allocator

The allocators' role is to handle the allocation of the liquidity (inside the caps set by the curator).
- **Allocator(s)**: The allocators' role is to handle the vault's allocation in and out of underlying protocols (with the enabled adapters, and inside the caps set by the curator).
They are notably responsible for the vault's liquidity.
Multiple addresses can have this role.

It can:

- Allocate funds from the “idle market” to enabled markets.
- Deallocate funds from enabled markets to the “idle market”.
- Set the `liquidityAdapter` and the `liquidityData`.

> - Set the `maxRate`.

Reviewer 2: Same here, I would keep it or at least incorporate the last 2 items (liquidity adapter, max rate) in the description for completeness.

Author: right, mb

This disincentivizes the manipulation of allocations, in particular of relative caps which are not checked on withdrawals.
Note that the only friction to deallocating an adapter with a 0% penalty is the associated gas cost.

### Non-custodial guarantees

Non-custodial guarantees come from [in-kind redemptions](#in-kind-redemptions-with-forcedeallocate) and [timelocks](#curator-timelocks).

> These mechanisms ensures users that they can always withdraw their assets before any critical configuration change takes effect (if the right timelocks are not zero).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These mechanisms ensure users that they can always withdraw their assets before any critical configuration change takes effect (if the right timelocks are not zero).
```

### Gates

Vaults v2 can use external gate contracts to control share transfer, vault asset deposit, and vault asset withdrawal.
If a gate is not set, its corresponding operations are not restricted.

Four gates are defined:

- **Receive shares gate** (`receiveSharesGate`): Controls the permission to receive shares.
- **Send shares gate** (`sendShareGate`): Controls the permission to send shares.
- **Receive Assets Gate** (`receiveAssetsGate`): Controls permissions related to receiving assets.
- **Send Assets Gate** (`sendAssetsGate`): Controls permissions related to sending assets.

### Max rate

The vault's share price will not increase faster than the allocator-set `maxRate`.
This can be useful to stabilize the distributed rate, or build a buffer to be able to absorb losses.

### Fees

VaultV2 depositors are charged with a performance fee, which is a cut on interest (capped at 50%), and a management fee (capped at 5%), which is a cut on principal.

> Both go to recipients set by the curator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each fee go to its specific recipient set by the curator.
```
slightly clearer

> Each fee go to its respective recipient set by the curator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each fee goes to its respective recipient set by the curator.
```

### Roles

- **Owner**: The owner's role is to set the curator and sentinels.
It can also set the name and symbol of the vault.
Only one address can have this role.

> - **Curator**: The curator's role is to curate the vault, meaning setting [adapters](#adapters), [risk limits](#caps), [gates](#gates), [allocators](#allocator), [fees](#fees) and [timelocks](#timelocks).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Curator**: The curator's role is to configure the vault. 
They can enable and disable [adapters](#adapters) and an optional adapter registry, configure [risk limits](#caps) by setting absolute and relative caps, set the [gates](#gates), the [allocators](#allocators), the [timelocks](#timelocks), the [fees](#fees) and the fee recipients. 
All actions are timelockable except decreasing absolute and relative caps.
```
